Create Post “kodi-21-0-omega-beta-3/index” (#773)
xbmc/kodi-tv: src/content/article/kodi-21-0-omega-beta-3/index.md

---
title: Kodi 21.0 "Omega" Beta 3
date: 2024-02-16T11:21:58.850Z
author: Team Kodi
tags:
  - Developer
  - Prerelease
featured_image:
  src: /images/blog/kodi_splash_v21.0_omega_beta_1080p.webp
  title: Kodi 21 "Omega" Splash Screen
  alt: Kodi 21 "Omega" Splash Screen - the Kodi logo sits at the centre of a black
    screen, a stylised Greek letter "Omega" around it.
---
Time marches on for Kodi 21 "Omega", we are here with the third Beta release!

> This is a major release, so, as you'd expect, it comes with many new features. However, with a core change to FFmpeg 6.0, there is a very good chance that some regressions may occur.  As such, please be aware that installing this will most likely break things, and we'd really like your help at that point to identify the problems and get them fixed. Please raise [Github issues](https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/issues) with full debug logs to help us resolve any issues you wonderful testers come across.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a major release, so, as you'd expect, it comes with many new features. However, with a core change to FFmpeg 6.0, there is a very good chance that some regressions may occur.  As such, please be aware that installing this will most likely break things, and we'd really like your help to identify any problems and get them fixed. Please raise [GitHub issues](https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/issues) with full debug logs to help us resolve any issues you wonderful testers come across.
```

First, we'd like to make a few targeted announcements.

**Android users**

> Many users may still be on the Kodi testing track for their Android devices. It's far easier to leave the testing track from a 'phone-based device, but be aware that if your device is on the testing track, we will be continuing to deploy Beta 3 releases over the next week or so. If you wish to opt out of the testing group, one way you can is by visiting the following link [Google Play - Kodi testing track](https://play.google.com/apps/testing/org.xbmc.kodi). From here, you can opt out for your Google Play account. This is the best (and possibly only) way to opt out on many Android TV devices (e.g. Nvidia Shields).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many users may still be on the Kodi testing track for their Android devices. It's far easier to leave the testing track from a phone-based device, but be aware that if your device is on the testing track, we will be continuing to deploy Beta 3 releases over the next week or so. If you wish to opt out of the testing group, one way you can is by visiting the following link [Google Play - Kodi testing track](https://play.google.com/apps/testing/org.xbmc.kodi). From here, you can opt out for your Google Play account. This is the best (and possibly only) way to opt out on many Android TV devices (e.g. Nvidia Shield).
```

With that said, for those adventurous types who would like to help us with testing, you can use the same link to opt in for a Google Play account.

**Skin Developers**

An API bump has been made for Kodi 21's testing cycle. See the following PRs for details:

https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/pull/23926

https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/pull/23862

> This will require changes and submissions to the Omega branch for skins for those who submit to the Kodi Repository. Reach out on the forums if you have any questions/concerns.

Reviewer: The first sentence is a bit clunky, but I don't have any suggestions immediately!

Please note, https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/pull/23927 has been merged shortly after Beta 2, and all skins will need to  update the GUI version number to be available in Omega repos for any builds (including nightlies) after Beta 2.

The following forum thread has the skinning change info for Omega: https://forum.kodi.tv/showthread.php?tid=372280&pid=3174566#pid3174566

And now, for the list of changes for Beta 3.

**Build/Dependencies**

**Estuary, Estouchy**

**General**
- The way in which buffer fill was handled was changed to care more for low-power CPU devices. Under certain circumstances, and with especially high manually-configured `readbuffer` factors, the buffer filling thread caused high CPU usage and introduced stutter by itself.

> - Implemented new "Adaptative" setting in Services / Caching / Read Factor that allows use variable read factor based on cache level. Cache fills faster and at same time it uses less aggressive read factor when is already filled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Implemented new "Adaptative" setting in Services / Caching / Read Factor that allows the use of a variable read factor based on cache level. Cache fills faster and at the same time it uses a less aggressive read factor when it is already filled.
```
I've tried to improve the English and made a guess at what was meant, please check.

  - Another advanced setting now allows the output of high-precision 32-bit float from within Kodi for multi-channel PCM files. This is again an advanced setting because some devices fail silently when opening this combination. Float32 is the highest precision Android's Audiotrack Soundserver can handle. It was tested and is working on Shield and FireTV 4K 2nd Gen.
  - We received a whole lot of bug fixes from external contributors this time, with the focus on HDMI Hotplug after refresh rate changes and also Audio device enumeration. The long standing bug of losing Android IEC devices during IDLE is solved. We are very thankful for these contributions.
  - @quietvoid has implemented a new setting in Player / Processing that allows filter HDR dynamic metadata HDR10+ and/or Dolby Vision to improve compatibility in devices that has issues especially with hybrid videos that includes both types at same time.

- **Linux**:

>   - Pipewire sink got a fixup for sample rate switching. With that updated code, the back-end server of Pipewire will switch the base sample rate whenever Kodi is run without additional other clients. This way, Kodi's audio will be output in the best possible and lossless way throughout the audio chain, including soundserver and audio device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Pipewire sink got a fixup for sample rate switching. With that updated code, the back-end server of Pipewire will switch the base sample rate whenever Kodi is run without additional clients. This way, Kodi's audio will be output in the best possible and lossless way throughout the audio chain, including soundserver and audio device.
```

> - **macOS**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- **Windows**:

>   - Improved chroma upscaling when are used Pixel Shaders or Software render methods and also DXVA only in specific cases: AMD + old drivers + 10-bit SDR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Improved chroma upscaling when using Pixel Shaders or Software render methods and also DXVA only in specific cases: AMD + old drivers + 10-bit SDR.
```

  - Improved channel layout match in WASAPI when audio drivers not support same exact speakers’ layout. This is only relevant for PCM (not passthrough).
  - Increased the number of video surfaces in DXVA H.264 decoding to prevent video corruption in some rare H.264 streams.

> **PVR**
> 
> **Python**
> 
> **Skinning**
> 
> **UPnP**
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**Videos**
- `.nomedia` files can now be used to exclude folders inside a TV show: https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/pull/24330

**Music**
- Fix an issue with m3u playlists which didn't show art for the second and subsequent tracks: https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/pull/24675.
- Allow navigation from artists directly to songs, missing out albums and discs.  This is more like how Spotify et al. navigate: https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/pull/24649, forum thread https://forum.kodi.tv/showthread.php?tid=375313.

**Known Issues**

You can see open issues on our tracker at https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/issues. However, to call out a couple of specifics, please be aware of the following if you're planning on upgrading:

- There are seek issues with multi-part MP4 files on Android (https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/issues/23673).
- We've had reports that the new splash screen looks like an OpenGL corruption; we know, it's not a problem, so don't panic. We'd be happy to have your artwork contributions if you'd like to work on an alternative. 
- If remote sources are unavailable at startup, users are seeing significant delays while waiting (https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/issues/23958).

> We continue to march forward to what we hope will be a successful v21 Omega release in the new year. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We continue to march forward to what we hope will be a successful v21 Omega release later this year.
```
This is a complete guess, but I'm assuming this was a hangover from a previous post in 2023.

If you love to live on the bleeding edge, you can get Beta 3 from [here](https://kodi.tv/download). Select your platform of choice, and look in the "Prerelease" section. Again, though, please: expect some breakage, don't use this as your daily installation unless you know how to get things working again, and please share your experiences back with us so we can really get going on those bugs.

> There is always a great deal more changes/fixes/updates than what we can highlight in these reports, so as usual you can see a fuller list of what has been merged between v21 and v20 [here](https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/compare/Nexus...xbmc:21.0b3-Omega). For a more targeted look at the changes made since v21 Beta 2, you can see those changes [here](https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/compare/21.0b2-Omega...21.0b3-Omega).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is always a great deal more changes/fixes/updates than we can highlight in these reports, so as usual you can see a fuller list of what has been merged between v21 and v20 [here](https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/compare/Nexus...xbmc:21.0b3-Omega). For a more targeted look at the changes made since v21 Beta 2, you can see those changes [here](https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/compare/21.0b2-Omega...21.0b3-Omega).
```
